Previously on
Criminal Minds: Evolution...
How many podcasts
do you listen to?
Mostly news. Why?
Turns out that there's one
that mentions me.
you and the BAU.
Fu...
(elevator dings)
Emily.
Bella!
I have to salvage the remains
of my flaming career.
You betrayed me.
I thought we were friends.
Oh. Brian.
There's something
I've been wanting to say
for the better part
of six years.
We are not friends.
- Sheila.
- Hey. Brian.
Can I... come in?
You look fantastic.
Bob says the same thing.
You talking about me a lot
with your IRS colleagues?
Only the ones
who make me breakfast.
Ah. Right.
PRENTISS:
The Fan uses Lance
as a proxy to try
to communicate with Voit.
and then he punishes him
- by branding him...
- (screaming)
...with the same word
Voit used to describe him.
Maybe I was pathetic.
but I don't deserve this.
Anything you can remember.
you contact me.
and you can show him
how not pathetic you are
on the witness stand.
Now. what did you
want to show me?
Where'd you get that?
Guess I'm a better
poker player than you thought.
I'll fucking kill you.
You're not gonna fucking kill me
'cause you knew
I wouldn't have walked in here
if I didn't have a plan
for this. Now who's pathetic?
Laura Boyd is our priority.
and we need to take her back
into protective custody
until we've
eliminated the threat
the Fan poses.
All righty. Mom.
Good night.
(sighs)
(choking)
♪ ♪
(beeps)
What are you going to do to me?
If it makes you feel better.
it's not just you.
(muffled shouting)
(thumping from trunk)
(muffled scream)
Where are we?
We have custody of Lance.
We missed Laura.
I thought we assigned
a protective detail to her.
We did. Philadelphia PD
didn't get there in time.
Her mother reported speaking
to her on the phone
at 10:00 p.m.. then she got
into her car. then vanished.
Every time. this guy
is one step ahead of us.
That's because there is
one part of the Fan's behavior
that we underestimated
in the profile.
His OCD.
He leaves nothing extraneous
in his planning or execution.
Everything that
we thought was collateral damage
serves a purpose to him.
Then we need to put
everyone involved in this case
back on the table.
so who are we missing?
(exclaims)
Fu...
(vibrating)
If you're calling about the fire
sale. everything's gone.
SHEILA:
Brian. it-it's me.
Sheila? Is everything okay?
I don't recognize this number.
No. actually.
What is it? What's wrong?
You remember. uh. Bob from work?
Bob who makes you breakfast?
Bob and I got into a fight.
Oh. I'm so sorry to hear that.
Listen. if you
want to talk. I'm here.
I do. actually.
God. I... sure know
how to pick 'em. don't I?
- What do you mean?
- Bob is...
...turns out
that he's suspicious.
Um. even more
suspicious than you.
so I had to get a new phone.
And. um...
he probably bugged yours.
I see.
Would you mind
using our shared cypher
so I can tell where you are?
The happiest place on Earth.
At least. the happiest for us.
Mm-hmm.
And. Brian?
For both of our safety.
you have to dump your phone.
Say no more. I'm on my way.
(door opens. closes)
(vibrating)
(electronic beeping)
What the hell?
THE FAN:
Hello. Brian.
What is this? Who are you?
I need you
to follow my instructions.
If you don't.
she... dies quickly...
(whimpers)
(gasps)
(whispering):
...but she dies slowly.
Oh. my God. it's you.
Um...
you don't need to do this. okay?
Just let her go. let them go.
I'm the one
you're mad at. right? So...
I-I'm sorry.
(beeps)
(motor whirring)
- Oh. no.
- BRIAN: Wait. wait. no!
What do you want?
(groaning)
Do-do you want me to.
do you want me to say that...
that I'm wrong? I-I'm wrong.
I've been wrong the whole time!
(groaning)
I just wanted
to feel important... for once.
I'm a. I'm a fuck-up.
I'm nobody.
I don't matter.
But they do. they matter!
(groaning louder)
I don't!
(panting)
No. Brian.
You've been essential to this
from the very beginning.
♪ ♪
ALVEZ: All right. thank you.
Emily? Brian Garrity's phone
is still at his podcasting
booth. but his car isn't.
The Fan has escalated
to abducting two people
in the span of 24 hours.
He's been in
a cooling-off period.
What triggered the change?
He was never cooling off.
He was executing
every step of his plan.
Guys?
- Keep looking.
- All right.
LEWIS: All right.
Jennifer said put everything
back on the table.
right? Reexamine all of our
assumptions about the Fan.
That means we need to
reexamine this.
You don't think he's OCD?
- I don't.
- PRENTISS: How is that possible?
His letters to Voit
tell us he is.
Except people with OCD
are actually
less likely to be violent
due to a hyperawareness
of their actions.
True. but we have seen it.
Vincent Rowlings.
Clara Hayes. they had OCD
and were unsubs.
GREEN:
But they weren't this focused.
One mistake. one distraction
should cause the Fan to unravel.
Instead. he's
executed everything
- flawlessly.
- ROSSI: Well. if he's not
OCD. what is he?
Bear with me here.
OCPD. Obsessive-compulsive
personality disorder.
Break it down for us. please.
OCD is ego-dystonic.
meaning the intrusive
thoughts are in conflict
with your self-image.
They break down regular actions.
But OCPD is
ego-syntonic. meaning that
you justify your perfectionism
and your control
with your personality
and your morality.
So you can function
as a psychopath
as long as you're perfect at it.
Exactly.
This is what we got wrong.
For most people. OCPD is
a hindrance. but for the Fan.
it's an advantage.
It makes him cocky.
Do we bring this to Voit?
- No.
- LEWIS: Dave is right.
The Fan is in Voit's head.
He's of no use to us now.
You bet your ass I'm right.
I've been wanting
to say this for years.
Fuck Elias Voit.
and fuck Lee Duval.
We're gonna catch his
little fan without him.
Now. let's get to work.
MAN (over P.A.):
Inmates. clear the tier.
THE FAN: Now who's pathetic?
Elias Voit.
locked away.
Won't let Sicarius out to play.
Who's gonna stop me?
You? I don't think so.
First I'll kill
Harlow in front of Holly.
Then I'll kill Holly
in front of Sydney.
Then...
Back away from the glass.
ROSSI: It's getting kinda
crowded up in here.
Don't you think?
Still. he's got a point.
While you're in here.
someone smarter.
someone better than you.
is hunting your family.
He's not better than me.
And he's not gonna get to them.
One of those statements
you actually believe.
Which one is it?
So. even without a face.
what can we tell
about our unsub?
Gait and posture puts him
in his 40s to 50s.
But how can a middle-aged man
kill a freshman
in her dorm unnoticed?
Not even OCPD can do that.
Well. he fits in.
He can walk around campus
and not
call attention to himself.
Well. he told Voit
and Deena Ryan's dad
he studied criminology.
Maybe that's
the college connection.
No. no. trust.
I have scoured.
There is not a professor.
a PhD candidate. a T.A. even.
staffed at Victoria's college
who matches this profile.
Then he's criminology adjacent.
An author. maybe true crime.
maybe in podcasting
like Garrity.
Penelope. can you look...
Are you making a joke?
Are you trying out material
when we're on the clock?
Do you know how many
people in this country alone
are into true crime?
You might as well ask me.
"Hey. Penelope.
make a list of people
not into true crime."
'cause that list
is gonna be shorter.
- Leather allergy.
- Huh?
He could have a leather allergy.
It's the most common reason
why people use
stingray leather.
It's hypoallergenic.
And if he's published.
or self-published.
his OCPD would want
the highest-quality binding
he could get. Something perfect
he can give to his friends.
Or to coeds
on the college campus
where he's lecturing.
Does that narrow it down?
Very much so. Thank you.
Oh.
(line ringing)
(exhales sharply)
Come on. come on. pick up.
OPERATOR:
We're sorry. you have
- reached a number that...
- (sighs)
(line rings)
BRIAN:
Hello. leave a message.
If you're trying
to reach Brian Garrity.
this is totally not him.
Although. he sounds like
a cool guy.
AUTOMATED VOICE:
The mailbox is full and cannot...
(beeps)
(sighs) He can't even
make this easy.
(exhales sharply)
(Laura shuddering)
SHEILA (whispering): Honey.
Honey. Honey. Honey. look at me.
Look at me. Look at me.
What's your name?
I don't wanna die. I don't
wanna die. I don't wanna...
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
Hey. hey. hey. hey. Hey. look.
Just breathe. okay? Come on.
(takes slow breaths)
- (Laura breathes deeply)
- Good job. Just keep doing that.
Okay. And I'm gonna lay out
a little truth for you. okay?
(exhales)
We are not in a great place
right now. This is true.
But if we freak out.
it's gonna be worse.
Okay? (breathes deeply)
(exhales)
Uh. yeah.
Thank you.
You're welcome. I'm Sheila.
I'm Laura.
Are you like
a therapist or something?
No. I work for the IRS.
The IRS?
Mm-hmm. Yes.
How are you so calm right now?
I taught myself
breathing exercises
when I was married
to him for nine years.
and divorced
for just about as long.
What happened?
BRIAN:
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
It was. it was an accident.
Brian. Brian. Stop.
I might kill you.
but not over that.
Something on your mind?
Uh... the BAU.
What about them?
They think you have OCD
because of the precise
typewriting.
so I thought.
when I knocked that case over.
- I had just killed us all.
- Hmm.
(laughs)
Is that what the BAU thinks?
Yeah.
They get a lot of stuff wrong.
Have you noticed that?
Take. uh...
...David Rossi.
He wrote that the first kill
is the most important.
Do you know
what I felt when I first killed?
Like God?
Nothing.
I felt nothing.
and it was glorious.
The noise in my head.
the need
to be right all the time.
to be perfect. it all stopped
and I felt free. But this? Oh.
This is even better.
This makes me feel like God.
'cause I know...
(clears throat)
...once I've done
everything I want to do...
...they'll never find me.
GARCIA:
I found him.
This is James Crowley.
He is a middling
criminology author
who supplements his income
on the college lecture circuit.
And guess what
his area of expertise is?
Whoa. Narcissistic patterns
shared by serial killers
- and cult leaders.
- GREEN: He probably
aspires to both. He have
any connection to the victims?
Two months ago.
he lectured
at Sterling Heights University.
That is where
Victoria Everman was murdered.
LEWIS:
Okay. but this says that
there were six other authors
lecturing there that night.
Right. and Crowley
had a peculiar demand
for the construction
of his latest book. Peep that.
It was published with
a stingray-leather binding?
Penelope. tell me
you already know
where this bastard is.
I pinged his phone.
He hasn't moved all day.
Let's get him.
Straighten the computer.
connect the cable.
Yep.
Turn it on.
(chiming)
Okay. (chuckles)
They're a bit early.
Who?
(clears throat)
What the fuck is...
- (gasps)
- What is that? What is that?
What is that?
No. no. no. no. no. no. no. no!
What are you doing to her?
She is no longer your concern.
What is. is who's
in the hot seat. Brian.
Let your ex-wife
out of that chair.
Okay.
- It's okay. just go.
- All right. sorry. sorry.
- It's okay. just go. Okay.
- Okay.
BRIAN:
Okay. that's clear.
- Um...
- Get this one.
And. um...
All right. okay.
There you go.
Now replace her.
Sheila. strap him in.
- What?
- What do you mean?
Why do you... Why do you...
Whoa. okay. okay.
SHEILA:
Okay.
- Here. I'll-I'll do this.
- Okay.
BRIAN:
All right. just...
Okay.
Oh. damn it.
Brian. I'm not leverage for you.
You're leverage for me.
Very good. Sheila.
Now. if you please.
I need you over there.
(sighs)
Okay. let me
remind you of the rules.
(clears throat)
You get out of this chair
or you trip one of my alarms
on the door. the cuff tightens.
Brian dies.
As a bonus.
I'll kill Laura. too.
Where are you going?
Don't worry.
I won't be gone long.
(sighs) I just have to
go get arrested by the BAU.
♪ ♪
(car alarm chirps)
James Crowley.
Put your hands above
your head right now.
Against the car!
(handcuffs clicking)
PRENTISS: No weapons.
No trace of Laura Boyd.
Garrity. or anyone else
in his car.
There's his OCPD.
How do you want to play this?
Well. he's gonna have answers
- for all of our questions.
- (phone vibrates)
So...
we will need
to keep him off-balance.
um. change up who's asking.
And then. uh.
if we can find a mistake
in his perfectly laid plans...
Even better. we create one...
then he should unravel.
Emphasis on "should."
Can you prep the team?
Rebecca needs me.
(door opens. closes)
Emily. uh.
this is
Deputy Commissioner Baker.
with the IRS.
Commissioner.
We don't get
to host the IRS
at Quantico that often.
I wish this was a social visit.
Are you familiar
with one of our agents.
- Sheila Watkins?
- Sheila?
I know she's
Brian Garrity's ex-wife.
I-I did not know
she was with the IRS.
Her boyfriend reported her
missing this morning.
You told me
Brian kind of holds a flame
for her?
Yeah. Yeah. he does.
We posted Mr. Garrity's picture
at her branch office.
Should we consider him a threat?
No. If anything. he's a patsy.
It's more likely
she was taken as bait
to capture Brian.
Wait. hang on.
Uh. our unsub James Crowley.
he has a compulsion.
It doesn't
allow him to leave anything
extraneous.
He wouldn't take Sheila
just for Brian.
so she must serve
some other purpose.
What does Sheila do for the IRS?
Nothing that affects
your profile.
Sir. you need to let my team
make that judgment.
- What is her posting inside...
- I'm sorry.
but we can't be
of more assistance.
What was that?
I don't know.
Hey. slow down. What's wrong?
I've got James Crowley
sitting in custody
with a grin on his face.
I can't confront him
about Brian or Sheila
until I know
what he intends to do with them.
otherwise he'll run
circles around us.
Oh. if I hadn't put Voit
on Brian's stupid podcast.
Hey. let's focus
on what we can control.
What can I do to help?
(exhales) Hmm. Can you just
find out everything you can
about Agent Sheila Watkins?
Mm-hmm.
BRIAN:
Hey. Sheil. um. I'm just putting
two and two together here
while I have some time.
When our mutual captor
said that I was
essential to his plan.
I'm realizing that he meant
in order to lure you here.
Mm-hmm.
Any idea why he'd do that?
And idea what he's after?
Yeah.
The Scrambled Eggs Protocol.
Oh.
Scrambled Eggs Protocol.
And-and-and what is that again?
- I'm not at liberty to say.
- I see. I see.
you're not at liberty to say.
And. um. why would that be?
(sighs)
Because I can't trust you
with the information.
And-and not just you.
But mostly you.
Okey-doke.
So. just trying to get
a sense of the whole picture.
now that I have all the pieces.
I have spent the better part
of my adult life
chasing conspiracies.
uncovering nothing.
And now.
I'm about to die in what can
only be called a murder chair
because of a secret cabal
inside the IRS.
that my wife
can't tell me about.
Do I have that correct. dear?
No. you do not
have that right. dear.
because you said "wife."
It's "ex-wife."
(crying quietly)
Are you crying?
- No.
- Brian.
It has taken me
a lot of therapy
to get to this point.
but your tears
don't work on me anymore.
Ooh.
That felt great.
Oh. I wonder
if I'll get to tell Dr. Clyburn
about this breakthrough.
That's not why I'm crying.
You remember...
the last time we were
in this place together?
Of course I do.
Here's what I remember.
I remember watching you
walk down this aisle.
and thinking I have never seen
a more beautiful woman
in my entire life.
I remember that.
And I also
remember May 22. 2016.
It's the day I was promoted
to special agent
inside of the Criminal
Investigative Division.
And do you know what you
said to me when I told you?
"Pull Lee Harvey Oswald's
tax returns for me
so I could finally
get some answers."
No flowers.
no... back massage.
not even a congratulations.
And that's when I knew
it was over.
Sheila. I'm sorry.
If this is the end.
I need you to know
that I'm sorry.
For all of it.
What-what are you doing?
We're both trapped.
you're not gonna be able to...
I know. just give me a second.
Oh.
Please don't tell Dr. Clyburn.
'cause this is a bit of
a backsliding moment for me.
Okay.
- I won't tell Dr. Clyburn.
- Okay.
I'm absolutely
telling Bob. though.
(laughs)
(man speaking indistinctly
over P.A.)
Three.
two...
(knock on door)
...one.
(door buzzes)
I don't get it.
You studied the security doors.
You watched
the shift changes.
You're not getting out that way.
So where's your head?
(gasps)
Well. this is gonna be fun.
This is you. isn't it?
Yes. that's me.
Why did you lie about
who you were when you met
Elias Voit in prison?
(exhales)
I wanted to write
the definitive book about him.
The only people
who could see him
were family members of his
victims. so I had to resort
to subterfuge
to get in to see him.
Is that why you arrested me?
May I see your keychain please?
That is a different keychain
from the anime one
that you brought in
with you to see Voit.
Mm-hmm.
I like anime. Seriously.
is this why you arrested me?
No. you were arrested because
the keychain in this
picture is a trophy
from a murder.
And because you made
a material threat against
these three people.
Can you explain that?
I can. as a matter of fact.
I did my research.
I listened to the podcast.
(sighs)
I just wanted
to elicit a response
that I could use in my book.
By threatening
to kill Voit's family?
I was in character.
(sighs)
Do you know
what we call this unsub?
We call him the Fan.
But not because he's a fan.
Because he's a wannabe.
He's an insignificant loser
whose ego is so crushed
by Voit calling him "pathetic."
that he'll go this far.
But that isn't you.
That is not me.
You're up.
We tracked down a copy
of your book. I gotta say.
this binding is pretty nice.
What is it?
That's shagreen.
And what's it made out of?
Stingray leather. I think.
Makes the book more valuable.
Hmm.
It's beautiful.
Do you recognize this man?
CROWLEY:
Jesus.
No. Why?
He was bound with leather straps
while he was being tortured.
Any guess as to
what leather was used?
(chuckles)
Well. based on your leading
questions. I'll say stingray.
I don't... What does...
Forensics determined that
a stingray leather belt
was also used
to strangle Victoria Everman.
That poor woman.
Yeah.
She was a student at a college
where you were a guest speaker.
Which one?
Sterling Heights.
I'd. mm.
I'd like to help you.
I speak at a lot of colleges.
Maybe sometimes
a coincidence is just that.
That reminds me of something
Einstein said.
"Coincidence
is God's way
of remaining anonymous."
The unsub that did this?
He's not God.
Even though he thinks he is.
Yeah.
He's just some... guy
who kills with a stingray belt.
(sighs)
I'm reaching for my waist.
not grabbing a weapon.
It's cow leather. We were
wrong about the allergy.
Doesn't matter.
The stingray is his signature.
If it's not functional.
then it's
gotta be psychological.
I'm up. Have Luke on deck.
Mr. Crowley.
I'm SSA David Rossi.
Can I. uh.
get you something? Coffee?
Sure. Black.
Mm.
You know.
I find this book
very interesting.
Really?
That's high praise
coming from you.
Oh. no. not the theories.
That's trash.
I like the font.
It matches these.
Yeah. I-I-I...
blew these up
so you can see that.
CROWLEY:
Uh-huh. What. uh.
what-what is this?
Fan mail sent to Voit.
So. what do you think. James?
Looks pretty similar to me.
Oh. my publisher chose the font.
Can you prove that?
I have the original manuscripts.
I prefer Arial. personally.
Um. would a PDF work for you?
So you didn't use a typewriter?
Agent Rossi. A typewriter?
(laughs)
Do you know what year it is?
(chuckles)
All right. one coffee. black.
Please be careful.
it's very hot...
Shit.
I'm sorry.
I'm really sorry about that.
(gasps)
(straining)
(exhales sharply)
These things happen.
His OCPD compelled him
to design those pages
and that book with
great precision.
And seeing them destroyed
should've set him off.
He didn't even flinch.
Is that it? Do we call it?
Not yet.
We have one last card.
Lance. I'm SSA Emily Prentiss.
I'm gonna walk you through this.
- LANCE: Is that him?
- LEWIS: That's what you're here
to help us figure out.
I'm not really sure
I can help at all.
I never saw his face.
But you heard his voice. right?
Briefly. yes. But...
I was mostly
reading off a screen.
PRENTISS:
Briefly could work.
Just take your time.
listen. concentrate.
Okay.
PRENTISS:
We're ready.
GREEN:
Read this. please.
"I need you to follow
my instructions."
Can he. uh.
can he read it again?
Again.
"I need you to follow
my instructions."
No. Uh. no. it's not him.
LEWIS:
Lance. are you sure?
This is your chance
to hold the man
who hurt you responsible.
No.
Not even close. Sorry.
(speaking inaudibly)
That confirmed it.
James Crowley is the Fan.
How? Lance
couldn't ID the voice.
Here's the card Crowley read.
He said "need"
instead of "want" twice.
And that
is the exact same phrase
that Lance recalled
from being tortured.
Guys. it's very clever.
It's also very circumstantial.
Legally.
we can hold James Crowley
for 72 hours. but...
But by that time.
Brian. Sheila and Laura
will be dead. so...
Unless we let him go.
I tail him myself
- and he leads us to them?
- Great idea.
Rebecca. also. I would like
to put a protective detail
on Lance here because.
A. he may actually need it.
and. B... and this is
a capital B... I don't trust him.
You got it.
♪ ♪
GREEN:
How long do you think he'll be?
However long
he needs to stall for.
♪ ♪
REBECCA:
Where's Lance Kingston?
Restroom.
- You didn't go with him?
- No.
Lance?
Lance. are you in here?
(sighs)
Find Prentiss.
Tell her Lance Kingston
- has escaped.
- Yep. On it.
(sighs)
Is there another exit?
No. he's just waiting us out.
♪ ♪
- (car alarm chirps)
- Here we go.
(engines start)
(air hisses)
What the hell?
GREEN:
It's a tire spike.
Shit.
We need an emergency tail
on a gray Chevy Malibu.
license plate:
Victor-One-Tango-Kilo
Juliet-One-Zero.
Turning north on Seventh Street.
DISPATCH:
Copy that. Units responding.
(device beeping)
Okay! Let's get started.
No. I won't do it.
Hey. Brian.
Want to hear
something interesting?
Um. when you go
into witness protection.
you still need to get paid.
Right? No matter how well
the Marshals hide you.
no matter how well they scramble
the eggs. so to speak...
...they still have to coordinate
with the IRS.
Your ex-wife
is the official liaison
with the WITSEC program.
She's gonna help me find
some very special people.
Maybe you don't hear so good.
The lady said no.
And if you're stupid enough
to go to the BAU.
pretty sure my team is smart
enough to tail you back here.
Your team?
What are you. an agent now?
I'm a consultant.
- (pounding on door)
- Oh.
Right on time.
Hurry. he's got a gun!
We're in here!
♪ ♪
Lance? What?
You were right.
They did try to tail me.
But Lance here was my ace
in the hole all along.
He disabled Rossi's vehicle
with a tire spike.
Lance. for God's sake.
he branded you.
He has Laura.
He said if I helped him.
he'd let her go.
Hey-hey. Lance.
It-it's Lance. yeah?
I don't know you. but believe me
when I say that
you can't trust this man.
I do believe you.
(gasps)
Where is she?
Easy. Lance. Easy.
See this phone right here?
It has Laura's GPS on it.
Now. after you put the gun down.
I can unlock it.
- And then. you can rescue her.
- SHEILA: Just shoot him.
- No. No. no. no.
- Just shoot him.
CROWLEY:
I-I... if I die.
Laura dies.
Because where I put her.
no one's gonna find her.
- No...
- (both groan)
(phone keys clicking)
Congratulations.
You finally get to be
the knight in shining armor.
I'm sorry.
(exhales sharply)
- (door closes)
- (laughs)
(exhales)
You know what
main character syndrome is?
We all think we're the hero...
...in our own life's story.
But... we're not.
- (gasps)
- CROWLEY: And when you realize
you're not the main character.
you become aware
of your role in a bigger game.
A game where every outcome
has been predetermined.
All that poor kid ever did...
...was suffer because of you.
And that was his role.
Well. you didn't
have to kill him
to make that point to me.
(chuckles)
(whispers):
I wasn't making it to you.
♪ ♪
Still want to be
the main character?
How well you think
that's gonna work out?
(keyboard clicking)
I'm in.
Emergency dispatch
couldn't pick up the tail.
- Crowley's gone.
- GARCIA: Okay. so. between that and Lance...
Yeah. He planned for all of it.
All we have left
are Sheila and Brian.
Well. Tara and Rebecca
are getting into
the Sheila of it all.
They keep hitting
this weird wall.
A wall with a sign on it
that says.
"Wizard. You shall not pass."
(sighs)
You know. it's funny.
I-I can't even recall
how many times Brian Garrity
almost got me fired.
GARCIA:
Well. there was the time
that he exposed you
for coming back from the dead.
there was the time
he got you arrested.
That's twice.
But I'm not counting
and it's irrelevant. Sorry.
No. it's not. actually.
Because when I did die.
I knew it was coming.
I knew for...
I don't know. hours.
Maybe a day before?
And I was so scared.
I was so scared.
And that must be what Brian and
Sheila are feeling right now.
As crazy as he makes me...
...I never wanted this for him.
I wouldn't want that for anyone.
ROSSI:
Knowing Brian.
he probably thinks
he can figure a way out.
GARCIA: Yeah. he doesn't
know he's up against
someone who's already
outsmarted him.
That was his mistake.
Brian's?
No. Crowley.
We have been trying
to find his mistake.
and it has been there all along.
Brian Garrity
is an agent of chaos
that no one can plan for.
You want to hang
our entire profiling strategy
on the man who has been
a headache to us
ever since.
oh. I don't know. forever?
Yes. Crowley has two victims
secured in an unknown location.
so we need to start
the geo-profile here.
- (keyboard clicking)
- When was Sheila's last call?
This morning. to her boyfriend.
and then the line went dead.
And Brian?
Three hours later.
unknown number.
So. Crowley took Sheila
to entice Brian.
He likes that.
He likes emotional leverage.
Except Brian
is a suspicious guy.
He should have seen that coming.
Instead.
he left his phone behind.
That's right.
Because he thought
he was going to see his ex-wife.
He didn't think
he was walking into a trap.
So. it must be a place
that has meaning to them both.
Yes. so. we need to go over
the history
of their relationship.
Assemble the whole team.
If we find them.
we find Crowley.
♪ ♪
(keyboard clicking)
GARRITY:
(grunts) Do you know who it is?
- Who he's having you look for?
- SHEILA: No.
The protocol won't show names.
just addresses and code numbers.
He gave me a list of parameters.
It's someone
in the Philadelphia area who was
recently issued
increased security.
It's a small list.
♪ ♪
Hey. Hey.
I may have figured
a way out of here.
(sighs)
Shut up. Shut up.
Sheila. think about
what happens next.
You give him what he wants.
and then we're both dead.
Now. I don't see
any point in that. Do you?
I swear. if you tell me.
"Wait for my signal."
I will kill you myself.
Understood.
But wait for my signal.
And sweetheart.
this time. it's gonna work.
(exhales)
MAN (over P.A.): Visitors
waiting. check in at front desk.
CARTER:
Dinner.
(pounding on door)
- ROSSI: Almost time.
- No. not yet.
Do you really think you could
do this without becoming him?
I'm only going to do
what I have to do.
Ooh. so you're not gonna
kill anybody?
Not if I can help it.
Not if you can help it?
Where have I heard that before?
Oh. yeah.
Every time you were Sicarius.
and you'd come home
and you'd look at your wife
and kids sleeping
and you'd say to yourself.
"I'm never gonna do that again.
Not if I can help it."
Stop trying to be someone
you're not.
Did you get anywhere on Sheila?
LEWIS:
No. Apparently.
the IRS is great at hiding stuff
when you are the one
auditing them.
This Agent Sheila Watkins
has an exemplary work record
right up until May 22. 2016.
and then her work assignments
go unlisted.
even though she is still
drawing a salary.
- What about their married life?
- GARCIA: Ooh. I have a wellspring
of information
on the tumultuous union
between Sheila Watkins
and Brian Garrity.
working backwards
from their divorce in 2017.
where they cited
the all-encompassing umbrella
of irreconcilable differences.
JJ: Sheila got the house
in the divorce.
she moved in with her boyfriend.
There's no renters.
It's unoccupied
- right now.
- JJ. Tara. go check that out.
Okay. what else?
Think. uh. neutral territory.
happy memories.
Uh. where did they honeymoon?
- Horseshoe Bay.
- Where is that?
The Bermuda Triangle.
Okay. keep working backward.
Was there a wedding?
If there was.
where did they get married?
- Where did they meet?
- GARCIA: Okay. they got married
in 2008
at Saint Michael's Church.
And I found an old social media
post of them meeting
at a local anime convention
at the Civic Center.
Anime would appeal
to Crowley's OCPD.
Luke. Tyler.
you go check that out.
Dave and I will take
the church. Where is it?
Alexandria. Uh. it was...
under renovation
as of three months ago.
- It's still empty.
- Okay. let's move.
Mm. Wait. hold on a minute.
There's this sat link
Internet connection.
It's connected
to sensors on all the doors.
ROSSI: Not something
you find on an average
- renovation job.
- Certainly not.
And-and based on this signal
coming from the sensors.
Crowley set some sort of trap.
Nobody's getting in or out.
Penelope. you're coming with us
to jam that signal
and get us in. Let's go.
Okay.
Move aside.
Who are they?
They're just numbers.
SHEILA: They're not just
numbers. they're living.
breathing people.
(sighs)
Not for much longer.
(computer trilling)
Well. well. well.
Look who's had everything
go his way.
There's just one small problem.
Teeny-tiny little problem.
Can you guess what it is?
Uh...
- I know there's no problem.
- Not true.
Maybe double-check
the connection.
(laughs):
Not. not that connection.
Wow. You really can't see it?
You're bluffing.
Maybe. Maybe not.
Why don't you come
a little closer
and I'll whisper it in your ear?
Hmm. Or...
I could just press
this button...
Ah. Ah. ah. ah.
What's good for the goose
named Lance
is good for the gander
named... you.
If I die.
your screwup dies with me.
You'll never know.
I'm okay with that.
Fine. I'll tell you.
I'll tell you what's been
under your nose this whole time.
Brian.
I'm starting to get bored.
It's a person.
That person has a name.
And that name is...
...Special Agent Garrity.
Special Agent Garrity.
That's the signal.
Oh!
- (shouts)
- (alarm sounding)
(choking)
(whirring)
- (siren wailing)
- (engine revs)
(gasps)
♪ ♪
(distant siren wailing)
(whimpers)
(siren wailing)
Uh... stop!
(moans)
Sheila. are you okay?
H-He was right there.
He was right there.
- He... who?
- The man. the man who wanted me to...
Oh. my God. Brian. He's choking.
- He's inside. You have to hurry.
- We will.
Officer. take her. secure
the perimeter. Let's move.
All units. James Crowley
is still in the area.
Alarm's off.
Crowley set something up.
- it's already triggered.
- Stay behind me
- and stay close.
- Okay.
- (machinery whirring)
- (door opens)
I can't shut it off.
It's powered internally.
Dave. cut him loose.
- (whirring stops)
- Okay. we got to get him down.
Okay.
How far out is medical?
- Two minutes out.
- It's a church.
- they might still have an AED.
- On it.
PRENTISS:
Check his airway.
Nothing blocking.
nothing broken...
...but I'm not getting a pulse.
(exhales)
He's in hypoxic shock.
His brain's stopped telling
his lungs and heart to work.
- Penelope.
- GARCIA: Found it!
- ROSSI: Hook him up!
- Okay.
GARCIA:
Okay.
That's on the top.
That's on the side.
Charging.
(device whines. beeps)
- Charged.
- PRENTISS: Clear.
Goddamn it. Brian.
♪ At first. I was afraid ♪
♪ I was petrified ♪
♪ Kept thinking
I could never live ♪
♪ Without you by my side... ♪
- Charged.
- Clear.
- Emily. don't.
- No. this is what we learned in our CPR class.
♪ But then I spent
so many nights ♪
♪ Thinking how
you did me wrong ♪
♪ And I grew strong ♪
♪ And I learned
how to get along... ♪
Charged.
Clear.
(panting)
(grunts)
♪ Oh. no. not I ♪
♪ I will survive ♪
♪ Oh. as long as I know
how to love ♪
♪ I know I'll stay alive ♪
♪ I've got all my life to live ♪
♪ I've got all my love to give ♪
♪ I'll survive ♪
♪ I will... ♪
(muttering softly)
♪
(distant siren wailing)
(crying)
(tires screeching)
(gasps)
- (gasps)
- ROSSI: Medical!
(wheezes)
- (doors open)
- Medical!
(footsteps approaching)
(indistinct chatter)
MEDIC:
Check his vitals.
(panting)
(laughs)
(indistinct chatter)
- I'm gonna go check on him.
- Yeah.
Hi.
How are you feeling?
(laughs)
"Special Agent Garrity"?
That was the signal?
I am Special Agent Watkins.
Can you put a little respect
on my name?
(chuckles)
You really did
save my life. though.
Thank you.
BOB:
Sheila?
Sheila!
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. Sir. Hey.
- Sheila.
- Sheila. baby. I'm here.
- That's...
- I got to... Bob!
- BOB: Sheila.
- Bob! Ugh!
- Oh. honey.
- SHEILA: Oh. honey. I love you.
- BOB: So glad you're okay.
How you doing?
(hoarse):
Did you catch him?
No.
But with Sheila's help.
we'll find out where
he's heading with Laura.
And we will stop him.
You know. one could almost say
that. uh. Brian Garrity
blew this entire case wide open.
I hate disco.
- (laughs softly)
- But...
I love karaoke.
Oh.
Well. I hate karaoke.
But...
I'd do it for a friend.
PRENTISS:
"The best way to find yourself
is to lose yourself
in the service of others."
Mahatma Gandhi.
♪ ♪
We have a possible
medical situation. Cell 2B03.
CARTER:
Copy that. We'll send backup.
(door buzzes)
♪ ♪
(panting)
(door buzzes)
MAN (over radio):
Requesting status on cell 2B03.
Is medical still needed?
Uh. no. all clear on cell 2B03.
Inmate's fine.
Copy that.
Good luck.